Hello everyone and welcome to part five of CSSA level on in this lecture will briefly cover a CSSA topic
known as specificity.
Specificity defines the hierarchy of CSA styling and what type of tags overrule others.
We've actually already briefly seen this when we were using the Asterix tag and we saw how even though
we use the Asterix tag in an attempt to cover all the tags in an aged him l document tags the had an
ID call on them.
We're able to maintain their styling.
We're going to cover the hierarchy of this in this lecture.
Let's get started by jumping straight to the Adam text editor.
All right here I have the part 5 HTML document open and I have a heading for.
For specificity.
But what I'm going to do is add in an ordered list and each list item is going to have a particular
tag with it.
So this first list item is going to belong to a class and we'll call this class top items.
And we'll give it the name roll call it just first and then the second list is going to say an ID and
that id will be too.
But it will also belong to the class top items will say it's the seconds.
And finally we'll have third WIPs and then another list item called fourth.
So let's save that refresh over here.
Zoom in a bit and we see we have the first second third and fourth item in this list.
The first one has only the class.
The second one has an ID and a class and then the last two third of four or just normal list items.
Let's see what happens as we begin to add in styling.
Let's say we just style everything that has illai to it and we say OK the color of all list items are
going to be read by your freshest page all list items become red.
But now let's say I also grab the top items class.
So remember if a class we have to use that period or dot and I call color here and I color blue what
do we think is going to happen here.
Well if I refresh I notice now anything with the class top items has become blue.
So top items is higher in the hierarchy than a general tag call.
That kind of makes sense you would want general tag calls to happen after you have a class and then
further up the hierarchy.
On top of a class is an actual ID.
And remember we do IDs with a hash tag.
So right now I have the ID of two and I'm going to specify this to have a border or won't give it a
3 pixel border.
That's solid black save this refreshes page.
Now I can see that on top of not just the normal tag or the class tag ID has superseded that just as
a general no.
Throughout this course we actually won't deal with the issue of specificity too often because we're
going to be using more formatted CSSA focusing on other things or just using bootstrap we won't run
into this issue too often but it's something you should be aware of in case you find yourself one day
working with CSSA and you're unsure why some effects aren't taking place.
Maybe you're accidentally overwriting something due to its specificity in the part 5 underscore master
that CSSA file that comes with the download for this course.
You'll notice that there are two links and I'm going to expand this right now and talk about them.
The first link is the muzzle Developer Network page on specificity.
It talks about the concept.
It actually talks about how it's calculated where specific specificity is actually a weight that's applied
to a given CSSA declaration and it takes a little more about it.
In other one that the other link is here it's called design Sheck.
And it just talks about what the heck is CSSA specificity and actually like this link galop because
it just talks about tags versus tags so what wins in class versus class what wins an ID versus class.
What wins in a pseudo class versus a pseudo element etc. and different levels of specificity.
Again not something that we're going to be running into a whole lot throughout this course but it is
something you should be aware of.
OK.
That's really all that I wanted to talk about for this lecture.
Just the fact that specificity exists and probably the main ones are going to be running into is ID
superceding class superseding a general tag call.
Okay.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture where we begin explaining your assessment for this
section of the course.